{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red5\green99\blue193;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c1961\c38824\c75686;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Impervious surface area was calculated for the individual watershed catchment of each sampling site to better understand the influence of urbanization. Watershed delineation was performed using WhiteboxTools, an open-source R package developed at the University of Guelph's Geomorphometry and Hydrogeomatics Research Group (Wu & Brown, 2022), and a 10-meter resolution digital elevation model (DEM) from the USGS 3D Elevation Program (U.S. Geological Survey, 2023). The delineated watersheds were then used with classified Landsat satellite imagery from the 2021 National Land Cover Database (NLCD) program to calculate the impervious surface area for each unique drainage basin. The NLCD imperviousness products represent urban impervious surfaces (developed) over every 30-meter pixel in the continental United States. The NLCD also includes an impervious surface descriptor layer that identifies types of roads, buildings, and energy production sites to enable detailed analysis of developed features.\
\
The Provo River flows southwest from rural Provo Canyon into the urbanized Utah Valley. Along the river corridor, watershed impervious surface area rises from 4.12 km2 at the initial sampling site in the canyon (1) to 24.58 km2 at the final site in the valley (10), reflecting a much greater urban influence further downstream. The rise in impervious urban area is initially gradual along the river corridor, but accelerates sharply between sampling sites 7 and 8, marking the transition from a rural to an urbanized watershed.\
\
\
\
\
Dewitz, J., & U.S. Geological Survey. (2023). National Land Cover Database (NLCD) 2021 Products [Data set]. U.S. Geological Survey. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.5066/P9JZ7AO3"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://doi.org/10.5066/P9JZ7AO3}}\
\
U.S. Geological Survey. (2023). 1/3rd arc-second Digital Elevation Models (DEMs) - USGS National Map 3DEP Downloadable Data Collection. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.usgs.gov/core-science-systems/ngp/3dep"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://www.usgs.gov/core-science-systems/ngp/3dep}}\
\
Wu, Q., & Brown, A. (2022). whitebox: WhiteboxTools R Frontend (Version 2.2.0) [Computer software]. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://cran.r-project.org/package=whitebox"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=whitebox}}\
\
}